not really ever spoke about it in depth
like this.
Nothing prepares you in life for those
kind of situations,
but I felt like I'd failed at the time.
That's the truth. And it's still
something that I'm unpacking still to be
honest.
>> Louie, you spoke to your sister Lotty
about this. Would you like to see it?
>> Louis Tomlinson.
>> I didn't spend my life as a young lad
thinking I was going to be a singer.
Like, I grew up in a working-class town.
Seven of us living in a three bed house.
Like my mom used to work a lot of
nights. She had to play dad as well. So
I would have to get my sisters ready for
school. So people in Doncaster didn't
get those opportunities. And then the X
Factor came along. I auditioned three
times. First time I failed. The second
time I failed. And I remember thinking
this is utterly crushing. Just so me.
But she made me feel like I could do
anything. So instead of running away, it
was like I know I deserve it. I know I
can't. So how do I relearn confidence
and go for a third time? When I think
about what happened in the preceding
five or six years, it is crazy.
>> Yeah. And the toughest thing to deal
with is just the lack of normality and
part of growing up in a working-class
town. I have this like guilt for the
success and money that I've earned and
then personal work within the band I
really really struggled with.
>> But you co-wrote 15 platinum singles.
>> But I wanted to do more. But mostly for
me, I didn't realize the value of family
time. And the more time I spent in the
band, the more time I spent away from
home, like two of my sisters who are
identical twins. I've never told them
this, but I wasn't confident enough to
tell them apart. That shows just how
little I was at home.
>> And then it ends.
>> And what was really strange was being 24
years old, realizing that the only way
is down from it.
>> Louis, there's so many things that
happened in your life. How does a young
man grieve? It's not really something I
speak loads about about I'm I'm happy to
because I cannot have that define me.
>> The floor is yours.
>> I see messages all the time in the
comments section that some of you didn't
realize you didn't subscribe. So, if you
could do me a favor and double check if
you're a subscriber to this channel,
that would be tremendously appreciated.
It's the simple, it's the free thing
that anybody that watches this show
frequently can do to help us here to
keep everything going in this show in
the trajectory it's on. So, please do
double check if you've subscribed and uh
thank you so much because in a strange
way you are you're part of our history
and you're on this journey with us and I
appreciate you for that. So, yeah, thank
you
[Music]
>> Louie to understand you. What is the
earliest context that I need?
>> Something that played a massive role for
me in my life was the fact that maybe
for the first four or five years of my
life, it was just me and my mom. My
first proper memories are just kind of
having like really kind of nice and warm
and really like emotional conversations
with my mom. I think something that I'm
kind of proud of is that I'm I'm I find
it easy to be emotional and I kind of
like talking about my feelings and I
like getting into conversation with
other people about that and that was
definitely something that she instilled
in me from from like a really young age
and something that still definitely
really helps me today especially you
know navigating through the life like I
have those kind of things and being able
to talk about your emotions and your
feelings like vitally important actually
for the job that I do mentally you know
>> so your your father wasn't around he
your biical father left soon after you
were born.
>> Yeah, it's not really something I speak
loads about, but I'm I'm happy to. Um,
yeah, he wasn't he wasn't involved in my
life at all. I've met him like three
times ever.
>> So, your your mother played, I guess,
several roles in your life.
>> Yeah, my mom was always really good at
that. I think she realized the fact that
my dad wasn't going to be around that
she had to play dad as well. And she had
this kind of mischievous instinct in my
mom and definitely kind of inspired some
of that. and and and part of that was
her being her, but part of that was also
trying to play that kind of dad role,
you know, where you kind of lock about
and encouraged to do kind of silly
things that aren't going to hurt, you
know. She was just she was just like I
get emotional about she's just the best
woman I ever knew. Definitely. And also
just I feel so vitally like lucky to be
able to have her as my mentor cuz she
just everything that I look to in like
friends and partners, etc. They're the
kind of things that that she embodied
really.
>> And you had siblings? Yeah. Lots of
them.
>> Yeah. Lots of them. So when when I grew
up, like kind of like the bulk of my
childhood,
there was seven of us living in a three
bed house. I've got a little bit better
at. But one thing I really have
struggled with is being on my own. And
and the more I've thought about that as
I've got a bit older, it's because I
just never had an opportunity to be when
I was young. the when when you live in a
house that you know it's threebedroom,
there's seven people living in it, you
you're you're literally all living on
top of each other and I I loved that.
Like it was like one of the best things
that ever happened to me being an older
brother. Like I just it's just it's like
one of the definitions of my purpose I
would say. I just like to look after
people mine. So like being an older
brother is like a role I feel like I was
always supposed to do. And then I think
even you know as we move through life
and a couple of things got more
challenging that role has become more
prevalent. Definitely.
>> I I was fortunate enough to speak to
quite a few people that um have known
you over the years.
>> I heard that was cool. That was cool.
>> Yeah. And I was uh I was just listening
to some of the the recordings of those
conversations like Nisam.
>> Yeah.
>> He's your childhood best friend.
>> Cal who's your photographer and
videographer.
>> Yeah. Love Cal
>> throughout the years. Lotty, who's your
younger sister, 6 years younger.
>> Mhm.
>> And it's interesting that one of the
things they all came back to is that you
you really haven't changed.
>> I appreciate that.
>> Yeah, but that's what they said. Your
best friend from childhood said that's
one of the most remarkable things that
you're still made out of the same stuff
and you've never turned around and
thought you were anything more than you
were back then when he knew you.
>> And that's one thing I love about him,
you know, as a friend. I've never said
this to his face, but you know, he's
he's a real guy. like uh you know he's
never turned around us to us and never
said oh I'm this big shock now or that
ego you know that's never played and
he's never been embarrassed of us you
know he's he's a real guy
>> it's at least 50% conscious that or at
least it started out as that idea
because I think when you enter a crazy
situation and and and One Direction
being like the pinnacle of that idea
there's people around you that all of a
sudden feel that that used to feel
really really similar and all of a
sudden they feel really different I'm
not talking about day-to-day
conversation but I'm talking about stuff
that we can relate to, problems that I
might have had that I might, you know,
talk to them about. And I think that's
quite an alienating feeling. Um, so
instead of instead of kind of just
submitting, I've always always resisted
that. It's been really important to me.
And those kind of things, you know,
hearing that and hearing other people
say that about me, that that does make
me really proud cuz there's definitely,
you know, it's definitely a lifestyle
that can kind of sweep you away. But I
think the other side of that and getting
swept away, I don't really like the idea
of what that might look like. And I
think you need people around you that
are going to tell you if you're being a
dick, like vitally important in this
job. Definitely. And those things I
think I think when you're surrounded,
you know, like a lot of successful
people are, when you're surrounded only
by success, it it it it breeds a funny
kind of narrative to be respected from
people in Doncaster like that. That
means a lot to me. Definitely. So that's
why another reason why, you know, I
wouldn't drive through the streets of
Doncaster in a [__] Ferrari or
whatever.
>> And you went to school in Doncaster,
Hayfields.
>> Yeah, Hayfield's where I did most of my
time. And then I failed my A levels and
then went somewhere else for a year.
>> You failed your A levels.
>> I failed my A levels. Yes. That was the
first time I'd ever ever got a real
bollockin off my mom. A real real
dressing down cuz she was really really
fair, but there was something that she
was kind of strict on with school work.
And I remember getting in the car and
she said, "You [__] your life up." And
she never swore. She never swore. And I
remember I got goosebumps thinking about
it there. I remember thinking, "Maybe I
need to do something with my life."
>> At at 15 years old, 15, 16 years old,
you join a drama group. And I was
watching actually just before you
arrived, at 17 years old, you got the
lead role in Greece.
[Music]
to
>> the foundations were set and you
ultimately at 18 years old decide to um
go and audition.
>> Yeah, that was the third time I
auditioned for the X Factor. So, every
year previous to that um so that would
have made me 16 when I first auditioned.
There's like three producer auditions
and then you get to see Simon, you know,
it's the it's the main one. Um and the
first year first year I didn't get
through any of them. the second year I
got through the first round
and then for a final time I said to
myself well I'm going to give this one
more shot because that was another thing
at that age it's it's it's one thing
saying you're resilient and I like I do
think I am but it's a lot easier to be
resilient at that age as well definitely
>> it's really surprising that someone
would go to the X Factor once be
rejected essentially go again not not
make it and then go again without having
their self-esteem or their confidence
knocked to the point where they go I'm
not going to go through that again cuz
every time you got to come home you got
to tell your friends and family. It
didn't work out.
>> Yeah. Well, the first year I can
remember it being utterly crushing. Like
I'd not really had real rejection at
that point. I hadn't really experienced
that kind of thing. The second time I
went was even more challenging cuz I
went with what I'll describe as like the
hottest girl at school at the time,
right? So, she's also a singer. We got
talking like months ago. Turns out she
wants to audition for the X as well. I'm
like, well, let's go together. Thinking
this could be like a smart little play.
She goes before me and I think at this
point I feel like I was still in the
queue and she showed me that she got
through to the next round. It was like a
gold ticket. I then didn't get through
and then we got because I was with her,
I was traveling with her. We then got
ushered into a room of say 200 people
and every single person in the room had
a yes. I remember that being really
really challenging. I'm just you're just
surrounded by people that are dreaming.
You know, they're really really excited
about what does the next stage look
like? And that created a bit more fire.
I think it was like, okay, how do I get
on the right side of this next year? How
do I how do I be in this group of people
next year?
>> Did your mom play a role in you going
for that third year?
>> I can't remember specifically, but I I
would say if I would have had any level
of doubt, 100%. The musical that you
just referenced that I did at school, I
didn't want to go to that audition and
she literally picked me up and drove me
there and I was so thankful that she
did. She was often very very good at,
you know, pushy parents or or that's not
good. She was never like that. She
always had the the right amount of
force, you know, um cuz sometimes you
need that as a kid and especially
actually even as adults, you know, in a
situation where you're second guessing
something, as soon as someone goes, "Go
on, you can do it. You're okay." So, I
think that definitely played a a big
role in that. Even if I had just
suggested that I wasn't going to go to
this audition
throughout the year, she would have been
giving me a hundred different reasons to
go. Now, not literally, but just from a
confidence point of view, the way that
she was talking to me, how she was just
put me on this amazing pedestal. She
made me feel like I could do anything.
Definitely. And I think that that helps
in those kind of situations going for it
for a third time cuz my mom's saying I
can do it. So, maybe I can.
>> So, you deal with the audition where you
sang make you feel my love. That was
boot camp. So that was the second part
of the audition. Um my first audition
was a song called Hey There Delila.
Did nothing for me like sonically. Like
obviously now I can say this cuz I've
got a bit more experience but as a young
lad you're not thinking about any of
these things. It was just I like that
song. I'll sing that song. It was bad.
It was really really bad. And to the
point where like it still makes me
deeply uncomfortable like listening to
or watching that audition. The only
thing I done like this is the school
production of of Greece and that was to
about 250 people over two nights and
that felt like a [__] mountain of
people. Cut to then your live TV
audition at the MEN in Manchester and
there's 3,000 people in the audience.
3,000 people is a big gig for anyone to
play like full stop. Like if you do
3,000 tickets you're doing really really
well. So like it was it's the definition
of being thrown at the deep end. And I
think that's part of what they want, but
it's not it's not going to yield the
best results from everyone. Some people
it is, but I just remember feeling like
a [__] deer in a headlight. Like
really really shaky, like really really
just felt really really uncomfortable. I
was just I just wanted the ground to
swallow me up. I'd never been in a
situation where
I was quite a confident young lad. So it
wasn't very often I'd even been out of
my comfort zone like that. And I just
felt felt like a deer in the headlights.
Definitely. Am I right in thinking that
they probably had the idea to construct
a band much sooner than
>> they must have done? They must have
done. Knowing knowing Simon, I will have
had these conversations with him in the
past, but can't remember now. But
>> knowing Simon, yeah, I think you know
he's like, right, he will have had that
in his mind for at least for the year
before.
>> He loves a boy band as well. He's got a
track record.
>> Yeah. Yeah. They make him a lot of
money. M. And so you come third on the X
Factor as a as a band when you put
together and then you signed at 19 years
old to Simon Cow's Psycho Music. And
it's crazy because when I think about
you signing at 19 years old and I think
about what happened in the preceding
five or six years, I mean it is crazy.
It's a mist. It's only now outside of
being in One Direction that I actually
have a little bit of a concept of what
happened and even you know the the
craziness of it because nobody has any
context to it before it happens. So we
we definitely we felt like things were
going really really well but we also
there will have been part of us
especially in that first year of just
assuming this is what you know success
looks like. You know a successful artist
does these things. And the first moment
that I remember distinctly actually that
that I realized that maybe this was
bigger than like let's say like the
average thing at the time, we got booked
on a support gig with a u like a Disney
band called Big Time Rush. And before
that tour show, our manager, but our
like senior manager, the kind of guy you
only see, you know, like six gigs a year
and it just happens to be Vegas and LA
and all the best places in the world,
you know. and he sat us down. It was
like this dressing down. It was like,
"Look, this is what you need to expect
from a gig like this. Expect people to
only know the the singles and even if
they know the singles, you know, like
that's that's a real win. They're not
going to know the the words to the album
tracks that it's going to be a very very
different show to what you expected. So,
we're all ready to go out fighting cuz
we've not really had that at that point.
We'd have most things that we' done we
felt really confident doing. So, like we
we we were kind of going on the back
four. And then I can remember when we
walked out on stage and I think we
opened with something that wasn't a
single and people were just locked in
like massively locked in and it was
really really [__] loud in there.
And I think that was a moment where I
remember again I had this kind of side
to me when I was younger. I was so
excited to tell Richard who was our
manager at the time. I was so excited to
tell him post gig about how it actually
went. Did you see it then? Cuz that was
obviously not how it played out. And I
remember feeling pretty smug about that.
But I think on it was once I kind of got
to bed that evening and I was kind of
thinking I don't know I wasn't an overly
deep thinker at that point but I was
still thinking occasionally on a deep
level. And I'm looking at this music
manager and I'm thinking like this guy's
like uber experienced like he's been in
this situation countless times. So if he
was to predict it wrong like maybe he
did I'm like well maybe we maybe
something is happening.
>> How do you take care of yourself amongst
that? Because you know one of the things
I've learned from doing this podcast is
I've learned so much about the brain.
I've learned so much about dopamine and
and and sleep and circadian rhythms and
all these all these things. And so when
I fit that into the context of what your
life was like at an age where these
neuroscientists tell me that the male
brain is still growing. It's still
forming itself. You're putting this
tremendous external pressure on it.
You're like shocking it every night. I
remember when I interviewed Liam um your
former bandmate him telling me that he
would like he remembers walking out on
stage in I think it was Dubai. There's
like a hundred thousand people there and
then thrown in, you probably remember
the gig, like thrown into the the taxi,
taken back to the hotel room and locked
in there. And he was like, I remember
him saying to me, was stage, car, hotel,
locked. Stage, car, hotel, locked.
>> [__]
>> I would say that the way that that we
both handled it, me and Liam, was quite
different. I think I I that's often why
I I kind of had a good relationship with
Zayn from early on because neither of us
are kind of rule abiding and not in a
way that's like utterly disruptive. It's
just we have our own ideas, you know,
and that at least alleviated a little
bit of the pressure knowing that deep
down if I wanted to just go and do
something, I would I would genuinely
just go and do it. Whereas I think Liam
and the other boys actually to a degree
there was there was an element of a
little bit of fear I think you know and
and also Liam had you know he'd worked
so hard from the age of 14 to get there
Liam's journey was a lot different to
mine my I just felt like a happy golucky
guy won the lottery you know like
whereas Liam was very very precise and
deliberate and he'd got there for all
his hard work so I think we also came
from a slightly different point of view
another benefit that I I had during that
time and I still have is I'm not a
dweller. Like I I'm I'm an overthinker
for sure, but I wouldn't say like I'm a
dweller. So I wouldn't use this phrase
in me very often, but like there was
there's definitely an element of
ignorance is bliss during that whole
time. I find it so fascinating that you
talk about this, this idea of you being
having the the minerals or the
personality where you would push back
against the system a little bit because
when I spoke to your former cameraman
and videographer,
>> he said that you you were the one in a
group that stood up against the the
label.
>> So, you'd be the one to turn around to
the record label and say, "We need a day
off."
>> Mhm.
>> And it's interesting again cuz I I was
one of the things I learned from doing
this podcast is this idea of like
learned helplessness and control and
autonomy. Basically, TLDDR is it says
that people who feel like they have
control have much better physiological
health outcomes. They have less stress.
They're more insulated, better
psychological states, less anxiety, less
depression because they feel like
they're in control of the situation. So,
>> there's this crazy study that I was
reading about when I was writing my last
book about these these rats where they
they learn that they can't do anything
about the situation and they basically
give up and they become submissive and
they stop trying. And I think about this
in the context of humans as well. You're
you're from what your your videographer
told me, Cam, you were clearly not that.
You're clearly someone that would push
against Simon Cow's record label as a
young man.
>> Yeah. And that's something I've had a
few conversations with my friends,
similar things um about this. And I'm
not certain where that was like inspired
by cuz it's brave, right, to to stare
someone who at the time, at least in
pop, was one of the most successful
people in the music industry and say,
"No, you've got it wrong. Here's me, an
18-year-old with no experience telling
you, "You've got it wrong." I I think
what gave me confidence in those ideas
is even if it wasn't a collective voice,
even if it was just my voice delivering
the message, it was always with
collective intention. It would always be
for the good of all of us. Making those
decisions now on my own are no, they're
not quite as easy.
>> There's there's a lot of different kind
of things at play. But where and again
it kind of comes from that big brother
kind of role. Again, I was the oldest in
the band. It was kind of my role in the
band, I think, to to to kind of to do
that. And I realized that by far I was
the most opinionated in the band,
definitely. So, I think I wanted to use
that for good and not just chatting [__]
about someone on Twitter or something.
Another important distinction about One
Direction is this is not like
disrespectful to Ed. Like, I appreciate
I was in a boy band. I know that, right?
But like if there would be like one
genre of music that I would think might
be the most naff, it's it's boy band. if
you could call that a genre. So going
into at this point going into One
Direction when I was 18, you know,
growing up in the north of England, it's
like it's like real, it's kind of like
snobby musically, you know, this like
this like real music and then there's
boy bands, you know? So having that kind
of feeling going into it, it was that
that was why it was easy to kind of push
against some of these old school ideas
cuz they were the ideas that I didn't
the reasons I didn't like these bands is
cuz they all looked the same and cuz
they all felt very kind of PR pressed.
You know, it was always a really
interesting project for me to try and to
to look at One Direction and think,
well, how how could we make this a
little cooler? I remember the the the
the real turning point in One Direction
was when we put up the pre-order for our
first single, What Makes You Beautiful.
I can't remember the number of how much
we sold that week, but we broke some
record, right, the pre-order and we got
told this and we not released any music
at this point. And I remember thinking
that's fascinating because they don't
know what it's going to sound like yet,
but they're invested. That felt like
power really early on. And it also felt
like that we could rewrite the rule book
because people were invested in us
as much if not more than the music. I
think that's fair to say.
>> Was there a part in the the evolution in
the journey of One Direction where you
had that moment where you go there's
elements of my life that I love that I
no longer have access to because of this
success?
>> I would say that
it's more gradual than that really. you
know, you you start to you start to lose
some of your own independence to a
degree. And then I think
also the age I was, right? So like I was
18 when I first joined the band. And I
always say this, that year of my life
before I auditioned for the XFactor,
at least up to those 18 years was the
best year of my life. You know, you've
got independence at that point. I was
driving. You could go out. like it was
just it was it was so fascinating
socially. There's always something to
do. So to leave that behind was quite
gutting actually and that took me a
second to get used to at first. Now I
always felt incredibly grateful and
really excited every time I was doing
something with One Direction. But any
kind of time for reflection I was I was
really really missing home. Like me and
Zayn would when we were younger we had
countless conversations of like you know
should we just pack it in? Should we
just call it a day? Why?
>> Because you you you feel alienated.
You've got you you you you are living
this lifestyle that and there's a
million different reasons, right? But
like the fame thing is really difficult
and mostly for me it was about being
alienated and I can't like any of my
life experience was now not so relevant
to some of my friends you know and I
think that also I have this I think this
is part of growing up in a working class
working workingass town but I have this
like guilt for the success and money
that that that I've earned as well and I
think that also is kind of part of the
same thing I think I think for it's kind
of like two different things. The fame
thing I'll never I'll never be okay
with. Like if I like, of of course every
artist says this, but if I could just do
the music, you know, be amazing. That
would be amazing. I suppose I could on a
on a lower level, but I wouldn't get the
same rush that I do. I think it's almost
Yeah, it's almost everything else that
that comes with that. It's interesting
when someone says they they felt
isolated, which is something I've heard
a lot from people who've had great
public success where they've got a big
fan base because we think of like
isolation as not being around people.
But I guess isolation in the context you
describe it is more about connecting to
people, relatability.
>> Yeah. But it's also like like the
metaphor would be like what's that
really famous crossing in Japan? If you
took a drone shot and you pulled right
out from that and you would just become
a little dot amongst the noise
sometimes. That's kind of how it feels
because also it's not the it's not the
real world. You know, the the the even
in the way that people perceive you,
it's not the real world.
The first moment that One Direction got
the first big pay packet was a
merchandise deal that we got and we
always did really good merch.
>> How old were you?
>> 19. That was the first kind of moment
where I I I felt really really excited
and so I rang my mom straight away and
you know told her about it like I always
would and she was really excited for me
and obviously you know there's she's
just proud that's it
and then I remembered the feeling of but
who else do I tell now cuz like do I
call up Nisam and tell him well he'll
he'll he'll be into that and he'll be
really proud of me but bear in mind he's
just seen me on the X Factor and this is
another thing I realized about people is
they think if you're successful then
everything is just you know successful
and that's how it goes. So I think you
know if I call if I I didn't call Nazam
but if I had called him he probably
would have been really nice but in his
head would he shove his shoulders like
well obviously you know things are going
really well for you. So I think there's
definitely a lack of like understanding
there rightly so. There's also a a gill,
you know, especially at that age. People
like life's really really expensive at
that age. People are like up to their
eyes and student loans. It was only
about 2 years ago that I put all the
plaques up on my wall at home and my
awards like the Brit awards and stuff
that I got in the past from the band.
They still annoy me even now in my
lounge because like if I'm in having a
conversation with someone, I don't even
really want like I don't I want to just
be me. I don't want to be that guy that
won those awards. Like we can be and we
can conversate like that, but truthfully
like if someone if Nisam came over to my
house for like a chat and a coffee, I
would hate that the conversation might
end up then gravitating to me or my
success. It's much more about just what
those uh relationships and conversations
look like in the real world. That's what
I'm craving is that real normality.
All I want is to just be on an even
playing field with everyone in any kind
of conversation. I think that was the
toughest thing to deal with is just the
the lack of normality in every sense of
the word.
>> How does things like alcohol play into
this? Because you're you're living a
crazy crazy life where your dopamine and
your your brain is being tested in all
different ways. I remember Liam saying
to me, this is really when he started to
have a problem with alcohol in the early
years of the band, and he I'll never
forget it, him talking to me about the
mini bar in the room.
>> Like one of the things I didn't realize
is, okay, you've just been out on stage
in front of 100,000 people, then you're
back in a hotel room with a mini bar.
>> I feel the pull from alcohol and I
definitely drank quite a bit when I was
when I was in the band. But I think an
important distinction post show would be
I'd smoke my weed. I'd go back to my
tour bus and I'd go and smoke me weed
and Zane would would smoke with me too.
I hope he doesn't mind me saying that.
I'm sure he won't. And that was great.
And actually like you know people do
things for different reasons and that
was my vice. That was my choice. Now the
reason why that kind of suited my brain
at that time was I've just had all this
noise in my head. I've just had this
crazy experience on stage and that's the
noise that you kind of need to quieten
down sometimes. So what we would do is
we'd get back on the tour bus, we'd play
Call of Duty zombies, we'd smoke our
weed, and like that's all we'd think
about and that's all we'd do. And then
we'd get into cliche stoner chats of
deep conversation, probably UFOs, you
know, all that kind of [__] And as as
as dafted as that might look and feel,
it it again, it's our normality. It's
creating the normality on tour. It's a
version of what our friends were doing
back home as well. But also it just it
it it was such a lovely way to kind of
debrief from those moments away from the
manicness. You've just got this kind of
really subdued nice environment. The
juxosition
actually felt quite nice.
>> If you could go back to the day that you
signed the contract with Psycho, what is
the advice that 33y old Louie would give
18 19year-old Louie?
>> Such a that is a really really big
question. I I I think I would just I
think I would say to be be be confident
in the earlier years because the older I
get, the more I realize most people in
their earlier years of doing said thing
are to a degree faking it. And I think
for a long time I was just thinking,
well, you know, I didn't spend my life
as a young lad thinking I was going to
be a singer, so I'm playing catchup and
all of those things. And listen, I'm
also there's another thing I'm I'm more
than comfortable enough to say. I'm not
the best singer in the world. I'm okay
with that, right? But like there was
definitely a time where those things
were challenging as a young lad. And I
think I would just cut myself a bit of
slack as a young lad because it's been a
lot of my
defiance and decision making that's got
me to where I've got and that should
give me confidence. So I think I think
as a young lad you I I did really just
felt like a deer in a headlights and I
didn't really have any kind of context
what was going on. And I think when I'm
talking about these things, I'm not
talking about uh no, we're not going to
do this Disney performance because I
don't think it looks good on the for One
Direction. I'm talking about more like
introspective uh personal worth within
the band or those kind of things. I
really really struggled with that as a
young lad big time. So I would I would
say I would give myself a bit more
credit there.
>> You really struggled with that?
>> I found it um I found it really tough.
So like like as I said before like I was
the kid who won the lottery. Like I I
sang my first audition um for the X
Factor. Didn't feel like I did a good
job. Was really surprised that I got the
three yeses. Now that was maybe 4 months
before the first edition's air. So I've
told everyone at this point obviously
I'm in a band. I'm on the X Factor. And
I have told anyone that will listen.
Like everyone. And actually me and
neither me nor Nile got any TV time on
our on our audition. So the irony is we
get put in this band but people have no
idea who we are. Like there's no context
for the viewers to actually see this and
and actually really care. I felt like I
was playing catcher from that moment in
I remember this like really like real na
thing typical X Factor thing. We went
filming for the judges houses which is
the stage. You have the auditions, then
boot camp, judges houses, live shows.
And we weren't filming for judges
houses. And I was already questioning. I
wasn't really singing at all. We had not
had like any individual thing to sing.
It was all like harmony stuff. And I got
stung by a sea urchin, right? Random
story. My foot blew up like an elephant.
And we had to film all this. You know
what X Factor is like, right? We had to
film all this Jeopardy. This like how
will how will the boys audition without
Louisie? It was awful. It was awful
because
there was no credibility to that
statement. The boys could have
auditioned straight away. At that point,
I was doing a lower harmony and I don't
I would be shocked if anyone could even
hear me in the mix at that point. So,
that was really challenging where, you
know, I'm already starting to feel those
things and then you get something like
that that's quite literal and they're
and they're trying to sell this
Jeopardy. And I remember thinking, oh,
like I it just it really I wanted to do
more. I just didn't know how to do that.
Again, there's no context. I thought I
was a good singer before I went on the
X-Factor. Then I get through the
audition, they put me through, and I'm
like, "Okay, well, I must be all right."
Then they don't show the TV audition.
You're like, "Oh, maybe that's like a
personality thing or I don't know, maybe
it is my voice." And there's a lot of
there's there's there's a lot of
especially as a young lad in this
situation, there's a lot of unanswered
questions.
>> Did you ever ask those questions?
>> Did I ever ask him why I was in that
band? No. I would love to, though. I
would have loved to, but do you know why
I wouldn't would never with him? Simon
would probably he would he would Simon
was always very brilliant at making me
feel
uh like worthy in the band. But but as
you said before, like I was often a a
voice between the band and the label. He
was the label. Well, he put me on side
and that's a smart move, isn't it? One
thing he would always do, Steven, is he
would always say my name. Now, when
you're a 19-year-old lad and Simon Cow
says, "Do you know what the thing is
about that idea, Louie? You are
empowered." Now, we like people using
our names. Now, imagine that Simon Cow
and you're 19 years old. There is a
spell that comes with that and there's a
power that comes with that. And I think
I think for a long time I kind of I kind
of fell for all those kind of ideas.
Now, I think Simon again is an
interesting person. He is a brilliant
businessman. Now, I learned a lot from
him. I I I still deeply respect him
and I was I was I was in awe of him as a
young lad. I just I was I love to be
around him. I love to listen to him make
decisions and and all of that. And I
thought he was he was definitely
brilliant at that time. He just
he built me up on a pedestal to the
point where I thought that it would
actually have a realworld meaning, not
just a thanks darling kind of vibe.
>> When did you realize that it didn't?
When I joined Psycho on my own,
>> so this is after the band, you sign of
sorry. So the band the band split up and
uh now I didn't have my pick of record
labels. It was never like that. But even
if I had I could have had 10 offers on
the table. Let's just assume they're all
the same money.
>> I would have I would have picked Simon
always because like again a little bit
like the north of England,
loyalty is like a a really important
currency. It really is in these kind of
you know working-class places. was
really really vital and I think like for
me it was that always meant a lot to me.
So I thought well if I'm I'd heard that
some of the other boys were thinking
about going to other labels which was
they were right to and I found out I was
the only one that was going to stay with
him and that just motivated me more. So
all the other boys went and joined
different record labels some of them not
even within labels that were in Sony
which Psycho was part of. And I remember
thinking oh wow this is like it's
amazing for me actually that all the
boys have done that cuz like look how
good this makes me look to Simon. I look
really loyal and and and and like some
of it was like deliberate, but mostly
that's just how I am as a person. Like I
I would rather just keep the happy
family kind of vibe that that that suits
me.
>> One of the um one of the things people
don't talk about is the impact that your
success has on everyone else back here
in Doncaster, including including your
mom. I spoke to your sister Lotty, one
of my team did and I was listening to
the recordings and she said that it was
especially hard for your mom because you
leave home suddenly at 18 years old and
from everything you've described, you
were more than just a kid. You were in
some respects a partner in raising the
the family
>> and best mates as well, man. Yeah,
definitely.
>> Did she ever speak to you about the
impact it had on her all of that? That's
something that I can remember really
clearly. And she used to do the uh
university analogy. And she used to say,
"I knew you were going to leave home at
some point, but I had at least a time
scale to that. I could like work towards
in my head, okay, you know, in 3 months
time he's going to leave for uni and
that's that." One Direction never
happened like that. You know, we it all
ran away with itself. So, I think it
felt like we all blinked and before we
knew it, I was no longer living at home.
So, my mom had no time to even grieve
that idea of like, and just for context,
I mentioned this in I made a like a film
and documentary, and it kind of sums up
me and my mom's relationship perfectly.
The first person I told when I lost my
virginity was my mom.
Like, I was as if as if I was telling
like one of my lad mates, I was just and
I wasn't telling her for any other
reason other than to show off and be
like, "Guess what happened tonight." And
that that we we definitely had that kind
of energy together, you know? We we we
we I always always saw her more as a
best friend than anything else. And
especially cuz I was her first. She had
me when she was 19. We spent the first
few years together without a male role
model. So it was a little deeper than
your average, you know, son and and and
mother situation. So I think it really
hit me like a ton of bricks. If I had my
time again, I would have been more
present and aware of those kind of
ideas. And I actually, here's a story.
Actually, I don't I've never told Daisy
and Phoebe this. Daisy and Phoebe are
two of my sisters who are identical
twins. And they're about four or five
years younger than Lotty, so they're
about 21. Now, I could always tell them
apart perfectly, but they look utterly
identical, these two, especially when
they were really young. And I can
remember the more time I spent at the
band, the more time I spent away from
home, I wasn't confident enough to use
their name to them. you know, it would
be always like, "Oh, babe," or like, you
know, something that way I wouldn't have
to mention the name because I wasn't
certain who was who. These are two
sisters that I spent my life with and
grew up with, but I think shows just how
little I was at home. And if my mom my
mom would come out to see me, which was
great, but other, you know, the kids
were at school and stuff like that. So
there was a long time for those out of
those 5 years we're in the band a long
time spent not spending enough time with
family and that I would say that is that
was 85% the job and the situation and
one direction and stuff and then 15% me
too like I could definitely have done
more like that but you know it when you
when you're living a life like we did in
One Direction free time is so
competitive and when you're young you're
not smart enough to realize the value of
this family type.
>> And you were on an absolute rocket ship
>> up until you're sort of you must mean
what sort of 23 24 years old when the
band origin announces that it's breaking
apart in March that year. Zayn says he
wants to leave to have a normal 22y
old's life which shocked the world.
>> Um how do you reflect on Zayn's decision
now? Cuz you were you pissed off at the
time that he was breaking things up or
>> I was fum. I was again it it's not
something we've discussed enough yet but
um me and saying I mean but again it
comes back to like loyalty for me and I
just
selfishly I'd wished he'd had a
conversation with me first cuz me and
Zayn I'd like to think that he would say
this too. I think he would. There was
times where like we were like
let's put it like this is a good way of
describing it. Uh on the last tour that
Zayn did this, we always said we would
never be this band. The type of band
that would have all their own individual
dressing rooms. Well, sometimes when
you've got a lot of guests and stuff, it
can be challenging, but we always said
we wouldn't be that band. And on the
last tour, Zayn did, Harry had his own
dressing room, Liam did, Nile did, and
me and Zayn shared. So, I think I kind
of like testament of of the
relationship.
So, I felt a little bit hard done by. I
felt like like not like throw these boys
under the bus, but let me know. But I
just a little bit I I I I I thought that
we had a relationship where he could
have had that conversation with me. In
reflection, and he hasn't told me this,
we'll see when I chat to him about it,
but I think if he told me, I would have
tried I would have tried to tell him to
stay. And I think that's probably one of
the reasons why he didn't, cuz he know
he knew I was always very opinionated.
>> So, how did you find out? That evening,
um, the night before we found out,
everything was normal. We're in the
hotel room. We were somewhere, I don't
know where, somewhere in the world,
maybe where weed isn't legal, but we
were having a joint. And everything was
normal, you know, and and then I think
he maybe left at like 11:00. He was
cool. Wasn't like in a bad mood or
anything like that, you know. Good
night, lad. And then the next morning I
woke up, we had a shoot with like
Coca-Cola for some sponsor thing. and we
found out that he wasn't coming. Now,
like I had this in me too, but like Zayn
was quite prolific for it. Like this
wasn't out the ordinary. Like if Zayn I
always rated him for it. If he didn't
want to do something like he he
literally wouldn't do it. Like you name
the thing, it doesn't matter. He just he
just if he does it doesn't if it's not
right for him then he won't do it. So I
think well then that's probably why he
left the band you know and that's what I
admire about him because if I was in his
same situation I would have probably put
six plasters on it just to hope that we
can stay playing happy families you know
I want to know if he regrets it not in
the way that
like he his own personal success has
been incredibly successful and he's done
really really well like that
but he must miss it like he must do
because I know Zayn really well and Zayn
has a bit of the kind of energy I do in
such a way that sometimes this whole job
can just be a little bit fussy. It's
just a bit fussy in general, you know,
just there's just a lot going on like
now when you're in a band, you can share
that wealth. It's like it's, you know,
say they say you're a sat an interview
you're not enjoying. You just kind of
shut up a little bit and let someone
else pick up the pieces and they'll do
that role. We could share the things
that we didn't like to do as much. There
must definitely be times that that he he
misses the comfort of that for sure. But
it's not it's kind of like the elephant
in the room to be honest. It's not I've
met up with him a couple of times
recently, but it's not often something
we'll discourse. But there'll be a time
for that for sure. I would like to have
those conversations with them. But it
crushed me, man. It absolutely crushed
me. I was I was devastated because it
felt like, oh, is this the beginning of
the end of the band? But then also, I'm
like like this is like my best mate in
the band at the time. So, it was I'd
lost a friend and someone in the band.
It's
>> funny. Yeah. You know, I've heard you
say that you didn't you weren't prepared
for the success of One Direction, but
you also weren't prepared for the end of
One Direction.
>> Oh, no.
>> And you describe it as hitting you like
a ton of bricks.
>> Yeah. It was awful. It wasn't until
after the event that I realized that I
actually computed all these feelings,
but it was like I was straight grieving
for it. That was grieving the band. I'm
someone who unfortunately has a little
bit of experience in grief and all al
allbeit it felt different but it was a
version of the same thing. It was
something that I really wanted that I
couldn't have anymore. I think like
anything like that you know like if
you're like a I'm a glass half full kind
of guy. So like I I felt the wheels
start to turn in motion like that but
you're looking the other way you're like
no it's fine it's not going to play out
like that. It's never going to come to
that whatever. And then we had a meeting
one day and and and and it did.
>> What happens in that meeting? What
what's said? Is it Simon saying
something? Is it the boys? Is it
representatives?
>> It was us boys, which was great. Um,
always how it should be like that,
obviously. But I think
it almost might as well have been
representatives. What's really
fascinating is those real serious
moments. We wouldn't have a lot of them
in One Direction. We were just kind of
going with the flow and really happy,
you know, for each other and stuff like
that. But I think those kind of moments
where you have to be selfish,
it was an atmosphere that I never really
felt in the band because normally, like
I said, we're arms in arm in- arms. It's
all this camaraderie. And then all of a
sudden, you get someone thinking more
independently and more for themsel,
which by the way, they have every right
to do, of course. But it just felt the
room felt cold that day. I can remember
that in particular. There was it was I'm
trying to find the right metaphor for
it, but it was it was something where
these are all the same faces that I'd
seen every single day, but I'd never
quite felt an energy like that in the
room. There was like a there was there
was this emptiness. And I think probably
because we knew we all knew collectively
where it was going, you know, and that's
probably some friction between those
ideas. The thing that really bothered me
was and this again is naive was so naive
at the time but I was adamant on having
some kind of indication of because it
was it was it was originally said as
what's that [__] word we've used a
million times hiatus.
>> Yeah.
>> Which by the way is just such a cringy
word. So it was originally pitched as
that. So I was thinking I remember
saying like well if I'm going to try and
do some stuff on my own and at this
point I didn't even know what I was
going to do. I was like it' be good to
know how long this break's going to be
for. So let's speculate a year, two
years, 5 years, 10 years, 15 years. I
never really got an answer to that
question, which I understand now because
truthfully, I don't think the people or
person involved was brave enough to
answer that question deep down. I think
they probably knew the reality and
that's why it was tough.
>> And does Simon try and persuade you back
into the band? Let me say that by this
point,
and I I I' I'd say Simon was aware of
this, but maybe not quite so aware,
because we're a band, after about two
years of One Direction, nobody
absolutely nobody could tell us [__]
Now, we wouldn't we were nice boys. We
were never like rude or anything like
that, but like so like if Simon had like
it just we didn't have that. It wasn't.
He might have had that relationship
prior like back in the ' 90s when all
that stuff was kind of prevalent, but I
think we we'd always had our own kind of
confidence like that. So, it he was
never involved in those kind of
decision-m. In fact, he was smart enough
to realize that that would rub us up the
wrong way.
>> Makes sense.
>> And then it ends and uh your life goes
from absolutely crazy to less crazy.
>> Yeah. It's something it's still
something that I'm unpacking still to be
honest and still trying to work out all
of those kind of things. I remember
something I spoke about before, but
Julian Banetta, who is a producer who
worked on a lot of the One Direction
stuff, we had a great relationship with
him, really cool guy. We had this crazy
night at um it was like some kind of
Billboard Awards in Vegas. Julian, he
pulled me aside and he said, and it was
like really, it's funny because he's not
really like this heavy, but it was a
real heavy statement. Obviously, I had a
few vocar red balls or something and he
was like, "Where do we go from here?"
Now, by the way, the we upset me a
little bit. It's like a I understand
that and we are all in this together,
but that question is a hell of a lot
deeper for me than it is you. I
understand. I get it. But at the same
time, you're probably and what he did
end up doing is carrying on doing what
he did. And I still don't really know
the answer to that question. And I still
it's in fact maybe I don't think you
can. I think a lot of people's not
everyone's but most people's natural
trajectory of let's just call it
success. I could make a pantic argument
for it not being specifically that. But
you know they have a kind of linear
journey. They that the older they get,
the more successful that they get. What
was really strange was being 24 years
old and realizing that the only way is
down from it. like there there is no
alternative reality where I at least
keep up or supersede. No way. There was
no chance of that. And I wasn't that
wasn't you know it was very obvious. It
was very obvious to anyone around it.
And still is something that is
challenging definitely cuz you've had a
look behind the curtain. You know you
know now these those some of the things
that maybe I had then that I don't have
now. I, you know, I'm not I'm not overly
pressed for like a I don't know, like a
billboard for the album on uh in LA or
here in New York. Like I don't get those
kind of opportunities anymore. Does do I
lose any sleep over it? No. No, not
really. But I think the feeling in
general of I have to work really hard to
be to to compete at the level I do. Like
that is just a fact. Like I just got a
number one record and the last record on
Faith in the Future. Never in a million
years, never in a million years when I
started my solo career did I ever think
that I would be getting a number one
record. It's a testament to my fans,
testament to the record, the producers,
etc. But I've always had to work on my
own anyway, I've always felt like I've
had to work really, really hard just to
kind of keep my head above water. Now,
the reality of that statement is, and I
realize that as I say it out loud, my
version of head out of water or head
above water is very different to a lot
of people cuz from 18 to 24, that whole
landscape looked very very different.
And that's why I've always found it
quite unrealistic to like not like to
not compare the two. I I completely
agree with that cuz they you cannot
compare them. The two being One
Direction and my own solo career, but
it's something that you can't ignore. I
do this I do a cover. stupid of me to
call it a cover. I realized how funny
that is. When I do a One Direction song,
I call it a cover, which is really
ironic. But I do night changes on my
tour show. And I can remember this one
show in particular, I think it was like
a 5,000 capacity uh room. And I think
maybe we'd done like 1,200 tickets,
which you know is okay. That's all
right.
But when you're singing night changes at
a gig like that, when you can vividly
and vi and visually remember singing
night changes like that at say Wembley
Stadium
and you're literally singing Look how
fast the night changes and you're
looking out to this sparse room. It's
like a brutal kind of poetry. And that's
the point about it being unrealistic
>> is
>> I could I could be the most and I am I
could be the most glass half full guy in
the world, but life is gonna constantly
challenge me like that. Definitely
because that was the pinnacle.
>> Yeah. I um Yeah. I mean it's it's it's
very very human. Obviously the example
and scenario you're talking about is one
no one no one can understand,
>> but it's the comparison is how how we
work. It's how we understand the value
of things. M
>> and as you say going to the the top of
Mount Everest at 24 means that you're
always going to have some kind of sort
of even unconscious comparison to to
everything thereafter. Do you what do
you do about that? Do you have to use a
different yard stick of measurement? Do
you
>> I I try to I try to
>> These are words, aren't they? Do you
know what I mean?
>> That's it being honest.
>> And some days I I live by it. Some days
I live by it definitely. I I wrote
something on my social media probably
like four or five years ago now, but it
was on Instagram, I think, and about my
interpretation of the word success
because I'd spent a long time and I only
knew through the lens of One Direction.
And I think that's a constant battle.
It's a constant conversation with myself
internally that I can measure my own
success in a different way. It doesn't
have to be a numbers game, you know, in
terms of like fulfillment, for example,
and like, you know, going doing like
this latest record that I've just
written, like I feel really really good
about it. There's been an element of me
kind of swimming against the tide a
little bit to this point. It's like that
the feeling of fulfillment is like
that's that's legit.
>> Did you have conversations with your
your former band mates about how they
were coping with these all different? Uh
to be honest, that would only happen me
and Liam. Um like between the other
boys, like not that it's not like
emotional cuz like it is and it's it's
definitely deeper than surface level,
but it it's it's more
it's more I would struggle to text the
other boys as much.
me just I would love to hang out with
him in person like that but I just
there's an element of it feeling
>> it's just all a bit small talk you know
like which is lovely and it's nice and
it's nice to catch up like that but me
and Liam would always speak on a much
more deep level because and I like he
definitely he I felt bad saying this cuz
feel arrogant but I shouldn't I I wanted
to look I wanted to look after him
definitely Liam like that that was that
was like a role I feel like I was there
to play and like he definitely, you
know, often his uh the way he would like
perceive certain parts of his life, I I
would be really inspired by like he was
someone who really brave at times which
like contrary to sometimes what he put
out but really really brave like he
would ask anyone anything with a smile
and like you know he he had a really
good way about him like that. I would
say he was the closest to being my
brother. Love him deeply. could spend
hours and hours and hours with him, but
there was an element of
always checking in and just making sure
that like he's cool like that. Did you
worry about him?
>> Always. Always. Yeah. Cuz
because I knew he was a little
misunderstood. Uh but also,
you know, like interestingly the record
when when when you're starting out as a
solo artist, the parallels of
people who know themselves made the best
records. Definitely. So like if you're
still unpacking all that information of
who you are as a person, as an adult,
which we all were post One Direction,
it's it's near impossible to point and
go, "This is who I want to be as an
artist." is cuz essentially it's just a
metaphor for who you are as a person or
at least that you know the best stuff is
Liam will be someone who candidly I
could say to him really honestly like
bro [__] hell like I miss being in
the band and we could like have a really
honest conversation like that whereas
and I I I I don't mean this in a in a in
any kind of way but if I'd said that to
any of the boys I'd be worried that they
might think oh things aren't going well
in his solo life you know whereas Liam I
never I never had to worry about those
things. It was It was It was like
brothers like that.
>> He wore his heart on his sleeve, didn't
he? So you Liam was Liam.
>> Yeah. Yeah, definitely. And I just It's
really fresh that it's a really really
cool way of living cuz we all say even
like I would like to say I wear my
heart, my sleeve, but you know, there's
still 10% of me. It's God in the right
places. He certainly had his his way of
being. I like to
>> I do like as we were saying I do wonder
if that made him slightly more
susceptible to
um the pressures because sometimes you
know if you can if you can put on a
second face
>> if you can yeah what's helped me in this
job and there's no truer time that that
kind of shows itself it's me as a parent
is there is a real distinction. This is
me there is me at work and there is me
not at work basically. So either being a
parent or being a a friend or a partner
or whatever. That's always helped me to
have that kind of distinction of, you
know, when I'm dad to Freddy,
I'm full-time dad and I'm not a singer,
you know, and I'm and any of that world
outside does not does not really matter.
It's not relevant to me as a father,
which it isn't.
>> Did I ever tell you about the uh data
breach that we had at my previous
company?
>> Yeah, I remember hearing about that,
>> which which um was a total nightmare.
So, I'm glad that we now use one
password. What actually is it, Steve?
>> It's called um One Password, and they're
the sponsor of the podcast now. And they
have this feature called Enterprise
Password Manager, which means that if
any of our passwords across the team are
compromised or leaked, then it notifies
us. And obviously, if that were to be
the case, we're at huge risk across the
entire team. Through one password EPM,
you can also store all of your sensitive
information. And it's helping us to move
closer towards pass keys, which means
eventually everybody will be able to log
in to pretty much everything without
ever having to put a password in.
>> Sounds like a good addition. Yeah, I
think it's like the single most
impactful security addition you can make
to your team. Especially if your team
has tons of passwords that are all like
hidden in Excel files and stuff. To my
listeners, if you want to secure your
business, head to onep
password.com/doac.
One password is a game changer. It's the
future that I always wish would be the
case. As someone that has, you know, 20,
30 different passwords for 20, 30
different applications. I asked my
assistant Sophie to find me a reliable
security system for my new place in LA.
What she discovered is that most
available options have the same issue.
They're reactive and only take action
after someone has broken into your
house. Simply Safe, who sponsors this
show, has a completely different
approach. If someone's lurking near your
home or office, their AI powered cameras
detect them. Then human agents who act
like a remote security guard take
action, speaking directly to the
intruder, letting them know they're
being watched on camera, and if
necessary, triggering a siren or
spotlight to scare them off. or they can
call 911 for police dispatch. This
immediate response is why I went with
Simply Safe. No one else approaches
security in the same way, but they have
no long-term contracts or hidden fees,
so you can cancel at any time. They also
have a 60-day money back guarantee. My
audience can save 50% on a Simplysafe
home security system at
simplysafe.com/doac.
That is simply.com/doac.
There's no safe like a Simplysafe.
I I've never found more photographs of a
person's life in my life. And I mean,
>> cute. Nice little denim jacket.
>> What do you think when you see that
photo?
>> It looks like Yeah, it reminds me of a
nice time.
>> This one?
>> Yeah, I remember that vividly. We did
like a full photo shoot in my living
room.
Yeah, quite the pose with the hands in
the pockets. It's much more nonchalant
than I would have actually been feeling.
I mean, these ones are all the the band
photos. I mean, it's just [__]
unbelievable. Like, looking at some of
the uh crowds and these images is
insanity.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, yeah. This my my mom took this
picture. This was the first picture ever
taken of us. My mom took this.
>> You look super young.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That again. Yeah. So, I was
the oldest 18. Then you got the Harry,
Liam, and now they were 16, saying 17.
>> And of course, you're
>> Yeah. I love that picture. I love that
picture. It kind of really sums up mine
and Liam's relationship. I love it. I
love it. He will have been telling me a
joke that I didn't think was like
hilarious at the time. So, I'll be
giving him that kind of face and then
probably about an hour later, I would
have laughed to myself about it.
>> And I have these these beautiful
pictures of your beautiful mother.
>> Oh, yeah. They're lovely. I love this
one. I love this one. This is cute. Real
cute.
Yeah. Yeah, I got I got the very similar
picture to this uh by me bedside table
at home in my bedroom
>> about a year after you leave One
Direction. The uh your your mother
passes away from leukemia. Thinking
about the timing of all these events
that thinking about the the shock of
being thrown into a very different life,
one without the boy band around you and
then your mother getting leukemia, which
if people don't know is the 12th most
common form of cancer. She she passes
away at age 42.
the timing of all these things is is
quite unthinkable to me because there's
so much transition in your life. Um
I'm just terribly sorry. I'm just I you
know I appreciate you saying that.
>> You know I don't really have anything
else to say other than just
understanding what she meant to you and
the role she had in your life. I'm
terribly sorry. You know
>> there was definitely as you said the
timing obviously there's no good time
for anything like this but I think the
timing that's what created a bit of it
didn't last too long. I want to say
maybe six months but of like true like
resentment for the world like real
resentment feeling really hard done by
you know it's the kind of one thing I
remember about grief when you're in the
midst of it you could stub your toe
right and something like that is utterly
unjust now that's something you might
have done say none of this ever happened
you stub your toe it'd be annoying but
you just get over it little things like
that are really really struggled with
when I when I was grieving. So, it's
things that should work a certain way
that don't. There's a zip on my jacket
that won't quite go all the way up. Real
micro non-important little things, but I
think because of the weight of the stuff
that had happened, there was just yeah,
there was a moment in my life, as I
said, for about 6 months where it just
felt like I couldn't win. In fact, I
could only lose. So, that's where even
just stubbing your toe, you another
[__] thing. Now it it sounds stupid
to say but once you're met with these
when you're met with that kind of
mindset of feeling hard done by the
smallest things definitely can amplify
that.
>> When did you hear that she was sick?
>> I got friendly with a footballer called
Jamie Vardy and he'd invited me to his
wedding. So, I was I was at the wedding
and now it it was like the party
afterwards and it was like 10:00 p.m. At
this point, I'd already had quite a few
vodka red balls, which was not ideal for
the the weight of the conversation. Uh,
my mom called me. I was I was stood
outside. It wouldn't been out the
ordinary for my mom to call me, so I
wasn't worried or anything like that.
She called me like most days, if not
every day. And then she told me,
and you know like what it's like
anything like this in life when when you
hear something like that carries any
kind of weight, like the first 10
thoughts are either it can't be true,
maybe she's got it wrong, maybe the
doctors have got it wrong, just all
these stages of denial of before
actually, you know, even
embracing the thought.
It wasn't really, it wasn't kind of
really lighting. It didn't even feel
like it was like a cry for help at the
time, but that night I got absolutely
battered. I got I got really really
drunk. Um that there'll be nights where,
you know, and there has been nights in
the past where I'll have a little bit
too much to drink. Um more from not
knowing me limit, but in this kind of
situation, it's not something I ever
really use drink for to be honest, but I
just that was I felt the only way just
to completely escape that moment in that
in that that night. What I found really
challenging
during
even that first conversation with her
about it was
I still wanted to inspire hope. I still
wanted to like cuz she was really
hopeful and she was like
so I was trying to have this like
genuine worry that any son would. But I
also was trying to shield a bit in my
mom from that. I didn't want her to, you
know, feel like she'd upset me or, you
know, even though obviously it wasn't
her choice. But I can remember that idea
of really trying to
I would be real with my mom about how I
was feeling, but there were times when I
wouldn't be cuz I wouldn't want her to
feel guilty.
>> So, she told you over the phone that
she'd had a diagnosis.
>> Yes. Yeah. She told me that she had
leukemia. My first answer was I don't
know where, again, this is just like the
definition of denial. My first answer um
word for word was, "Oh, that's the good
one to get though, right?"
Meaning that has the most survival rate.
Um, and bless her, she has to be like,
"No, not really."
>> And how long was it from that phone call
till to till her passing?
>> I I have no idea. I could not I I want
my guess would be 18 months. I think it
might have been quicker than that. Um,
the anniversary of her death,
I get texts all the time and whenever
the anniversary is and someone will say,
"Thinking of you today." And it's only
at that point that I know that that's
the day
>> because I just it's deleted from my
brain.
>> She she passes. Um because you don't
have a your biological father isn't
around. You're very much at that point,
you know, you're the
in some respects you're the father of
lots of siblings
>> cuz you're you're your big brother. Um
you you went out on stage three days
after her death for an XFactor
performance.
Um, from what I understand from from
Lotty, she very much pushed you to do
that before she passed away and told you
that you you you
needed to do that performance.
I'll never forget the X Factor final
performance that he did with Steve
Aayoki when my mom had only passed away
like a couple of days before, which I
still can't believe he even, you know,
had the strength to do. But my mom was
just so proud of him and especially him
starting his solo career. Even in like
her final days, she was like, "If I
don't make it, I still want you to do
this performance."
And when she did pass, we were like,
"There's no way." No one would have
expected him to do it. But he wanted to
do it for her.
>> And I knew I knew exactly what that was.
I knew why she was telling me. She was
telling me because she would have hated
something that she something that had
happened to her affect my career and my
life as a person. I would do it again
for her. That's I don't think I'll ever
have a more challenging time in me life
than those three and a half minutes on
stage. I did it only for her. I didn't I
didn't It's not something I look back on
and go I'm really proud that I am proud
that I did that, but that that you
almost say those kind of things when you
want to do something, right? I'm really
proud that I did that. I that wasn't it
felt like it was taken out of my hands.
I didn't want her to have that gill,
but it was the last thing in the world I
wanted to do. Like obviously like I just
it was it was horrible. And also the
song alluded to the song was called Just
Hold On.
It's weird how empowering those moments
are. I I can sit here now and
comfortably say that the chance now
obviously they could, but the chances of
my life being as dark as it was in those
3 minutes alone, like I would be
desperately unlucky to ever be in a
situation like that again where it was
where I was so young. I was in a
situation where as you said all the
timing was and then I felt like I'd you
know been encouraged to go on stage but
it wasn't really something that I did
that I wanted to do. It puts everything
into perspective you know so like like
nothing's going to get as hard as that.
So I think it it there's times where my
job will weigh me down even like today
you know not today but I mean in this
current head and it's just worth it
helps me remember and it helps me put
things into perspective that you know
just because a radio station isn't
playing my single you know that that
hurts 0.0 0 0 0 1% the same as as
something like that. I think because I
was so challenged emotionally and I I I
survived the experience, it's given me a
weird kind of confidence to be honest.
It's it just knowing that life
probably won't get that dark again.
>> You sometimes don't realize that the
role that your parents were playing
until they're not around that they were
almost a sort of tectonic plate
underneath everything. Was that was that
a realization at that point?
>> Big time. I I there was this true
dependency on my mom that I did not
realize until I'd got until I'd lost me
mom. Um so I think there there was
definitely stuff that I've had to learn
like being like on my own. And often she
would inspire confidence. You know, I'd
say I'm worried about this. I don't want
to go to this audition or I don't want
to do this or I'm worried about this
song. And she like, you know, as she
always did, made me feel like I could do
anything in the in the planet. And she'd
actually make me feel stupid for even
questioning the fact that I could
couldn't do anything, you know. So, I
think there's moments like that where
you have to you've almost had to relearn
confidence like that.
>> And and how how does how does a young
man grieve the loss of his mother at
such a young age?
>> Everyone obviously everyone everyone's
grief is completely individual. So then
I found out more recently, purpose was
mine. Now this is again not a luxury
that everyone has in a situation like I
found myself in. I I grieved and I I I
had moments where I was deeply deeply
upset. But these were fleeting moments
because there was too much to do for my
sisters. There was too much to do for my
dad and granddad. There was too much to
do for me family where it gave me
something to do. It gave me a true
purpose. It gave me a reason in the
darkest days to get out of bed and
confidently get out of bed cuz I had
that there was stuff that needed to be
done. And at that time my sisters were
so so so young and I was so terrified of
what kind of effect that would have on
them, you know, growing up. And luckily
they impress me every day. They're
amazing amazing women. My role felt like
the
the strong one in that situation and
someone who's willing to give someone,
you know, Daisy had called me and she'd
be really upset and by the end of the
call she can just see the glimpse of a
glass half full. That was my job. You
know, the grief became less relevant
because of
the need to look after everyone else.
Like sometimes you get might get asked
like you know what advice would you give
to people with grief?
It's just an impossible question to
answer just because like I'm still I'm
still feeling it. Like you you could you
could and the interesting thing about
that is you could spend two weeks with
me and you never knew me and you never
knew my life story. Never in a million
years would you think so? I don't carry
myself like that. I'm not someone who's
like down in the dumps like that. But
it's still there, you know. It's it will
never go away.
>> What What are the symptoms of it still
being there? It it it there is like this
air of I suppose air of unpredictable
this feeling of
and that's sometimes where my my uh
positivity comes from too like things
could change tomorrow. So I suppose that
is and that kind of jeopardy and that
kind of idea that's how I would
interpret it that and because for for
any grief that I've experienced it has
been relatively quick. I haven't really
had a lot of time to compute these kind
of ideas. Does that create a certain
anxiety with life and a certain worry
for life that you know if the
foundations are uncertain and bad news
can arrive at any moment one would you
know that seems like the the breeding
ground of worry and anxiety. I I
actually wrote that down earlier cuz
when we were speaking earlier you said I
wasn't a worrier back then
>> when you're talking about your
childhood.
>> Yeah. I didn't used to be a worrier. Now
I'm I'm sure most people can say that
right? your worry your worry levels or
at least for most people are you have
less worry when you're younger you know
you haven't quite understood all your
emotions yet really
>> do you have anxiety do you struggle with
it
>> it's yeah I experience it all the time
is it something that kind of controls me
no you know I'm sure you've heard about
this my vocal coach always used to say
to me that the feeling of being anxious
and excited are near identical in
feeling And and and that was something
that always kind of stuck with me really
cuz not always but like a lot of like
stuff that feels really good can be
quite intimidating beforehand. You know
that that was an anxiety that comes with
doing something that is out of the
ordinary. I suppose I can distinctly
remember not so much now but on the
first tour like I would literally before
going out on stage I'd literally as
futile and as ridiculous as it is I'd
think to myself like how do I run away
from this? like how could I literally
run out the door and not do the gig? So
maybe that would be a version of
anxiety, but it didn't stop me getting
up there and doing it. I suppose maybe
there's the the difference.
>> Couple years after the passing of your
mother, you lose your younger sister,
Felicity.
And the circumstances of her her death
are um deeply deeply
tragic. When I was speaking to several
people in your life around you, they
they talked about how you had done so
much since the passing of your mother to
support your sisters, how you'd really
take t taken on the role as being the
the quote unquote head of the family is
what they told me. And the tragedy is
deepened by the fact that she's 18 years
old at the time. Again, an unthinkable
an unthinkable tragedy for for one
person to go through in their life, but
for you to go through two of these
things in succession is
I mean, I don't have the words. Yeah,
that was that was kind of what I was
speaking about before. That moment of
stubbing your toe and that kind of
aggravating you. That was just like that
idea accentuated. Um I just couldn't
believe I couldn't I couldn't believe
how deeply unlucky we've been as a
family. I was just now
you know maybe it's not overly uncommon
um people that you lose parents young
and obviously struggle to deal with a
bit at the time.
I felt
angry at life and I felt angry mostly on
be behalf of my family. Now it wouldn't
be like obviously I would know that I
was included in this idea but I wouldn't
be I wouldn't be thinking what have I
done to deserve this. It was more Daisy
and Phoebe are so young they've already
had so and Lotty as well already had so
much to deal with. Why this and why now?
It just it just it was it did feel
incredibly incredibly unfair. That's
something that's interesting about grief
is just how different each thing feels.
Um was that definitely it hit me in a
different way. I was it was completely
sudden and immediate. I uh
again one of the most challenging
moments of my life. the so I'm sat in my
house in London and everything was like
fine. Um I was a little bit worried.
I've been worried about Felicity for the
months prior as I was worried about all
my sisters and I was just sat in my
front room smoking a joint, not thinking
about anything really. And then the
doorbell rang at like
1 in the morning or something or maybe
like midnight.
And I had this feeling come over me
straight away. And I'm not really this
kind of guy where I'm I you know and in
on another day I might have been worried
that the police were coming to grab me
weed, but I wasn't like that. I just had
this thing come over me straight away
and I knew it was bad. and knew that
look when someone rings your doorbell
about that time it's not it's rarely
good news
and I saw and then and then I opened the
gates I've got these gates and I opened
the gates and I saw the police car and
the policeman
and then they told me that she passed
away and
I literally was like okay
right
um I can't tell you why cuz it was it
was just there was just Uh, it was only
me and my best friend and my
ex-girlfriend at the time. So, it wasn't
like a pride thing of me being like,
"Okay, like I'm I'm cool. I'm fine." I
just I think I didn't I just
Not only did I was I in denial at that
moment, like I just refused to even
compute it. It was just like, "Okay,
cool." And then I remember shutting the
door.
And then I had I told the people I'm in
the house with. And uh obviously then
they then they start crying and
obviously then
I think your brain starts catching up
with you.
Um
and something that was really really
tough for me at this moment in time
and this is a stupid thing to say cuz I
know that he was more than willing to be
there for me but my best friend who I
was living at the time who's here today
I remember him saying I'm just so sorry.
and he was crying his eyes out. I was
just like, "I'm just so sorry. I'm so
sorry."
And I
I felt I felt I felt guilty that he felt
like that, which is stupid. Um,
and so I'd said before about how
this is, you know, me and my family are
are are some of the characters in this
story, but often what's not spoke about
in the name of grief is people like my
best friend and the role that they have
to play. Now, these are not trained
therapists. These are not people who've
had any kind of reference of this kind
of pain. And all you're doing as a best
friend there is actually demanding or
just praying hoping that they give you
something in return that will
not change the reality but just you know
be there for you or whatever. And that
nothing prepares you in life for those
kind of situations. That's something
that I will forever, forever, ever be in
debt to him for because
yes,
you know, this is an unfathomable, it's
a really impossible situation for me and
my family to have found ourselves in,
but there are other people at play too,
you know, and and and I I can only
imagine how hard that was. And he knew
how hard it was for me and how I just
lost me mom and and there are no words,
right? you just I'm sure you're just
scrambling your brain trying to find the
words and there isn't any. Um, also bear
in mind everything that I've said before
this,
if I was to dumb my role down to like
one thing in life, I'd maybe say like to
look after people. Well, like in the
context of my sisters, the protector,
right? to lose me sister in the manner
that we did.
Even though I know I knew that it wasn't
fair on myself, like I felt
I felt utterly guilty. I felt powerless
and I felt like I'd let me sister and
like I'd let my mom down really. Um my
mom said to me like last couple of weeks
of her life, she was like,
"You better promise me you look after
your sisters." is and I'm like, "Yeah,
you know, of course, you know, I will."
And she was like, "But specifically,
Felicity, you know, she's fragile."
I felt like I'd failed at the time. That
that that that's the truth. Um I know
now that I I didn't and if she was here
now, she would say that you didn't. Um
but yeah, it doesn't change the feeling.
And that's again, you know, that that
was that's always been the role I played
in the family. So, and all I was trying
to all I was trying to do after me was
just put me and me sisters in and me
grandparents in a bubble and just like
let's just nothing's going to get to us,
you know. So, that that uh
sounds like a really um arrogant thing
to say. I mean this more metaphorically,
but it truly undermined me. It
undermined all the hope that I'd had,
all this all these kind of ideas that I
was instilling post a life without our
mom. And it just kind of undermined all
those ideas. It made it made it a lot
more challenging for me to say them and
and feel them and believe them. But the
same with me sisters, like you know, so
it it just made everything obviously
infinitely more diff difficult. Um, the
only thing I'm thankful is that me mom
wasn't around to to see that because
that would have been horrible for her.
But,
>> you know, I actually learned this from
um being around, funny enough, being
around Liam. Um, when someone is
struggling with their with their own
demons, per se, unless you've been
around someone who's really struggling,
you probably don't understand how
helpless it often feels. And and in
hindsight, it's, you know, someone
that's not been in those situations
thinks, well, you just you just go over
there and you sit with them and have
dinner and then you fix it. You just
stay. But actually, the reality of
helping someone who's struggling is they
often do things in private and in
secretly you referenced you knew that
Felicity was was struggling with
something. Was was that the passing of
your mother that she was struggling with
or was it life generally? Was
>> I think it was a bit of both. I think I
think obviously mom passing definitely
amplified any of those things. Um, but I
think with Felicity, she was one of
these people that um
she was uber intelligent from a young
age. Really, really, really intelligent,
which is ironic cuz I'd say we're
relatively smart family, but she was
like in her own league. Um, really,
really intelligent woman. And I think
that brought its own like social
frustration for her definitely. You
know, you hear these people that are
like intelligent from a young age. She
would always have felt like she was on
the outside looking in, but only because
of like her intellect really. And you
know that's tough for kids when they're
younger. Definitely it's not something I
can personally relate to. But I can
imagine how that would be really
alienating and tough. Fisty
was probably the most like mom. So that
that that then that also carried its own
way because it felt
I'd say Felicity looked the most like my
mom as well, like visually.
>> I mean, she's authentic.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's crazy.
>> You look like each other to be honest.
>> Yeah, we do. I used to get that when I
was younger. People always just say how
much I look like me mom. And as a young
lad, that's not really what you want to
hear. But I I'm really proud that
>> Yeah.
Yeah. You can see how much I love her
there.
But you see,
I've alluded to some of this stuff in
the past, not not really ever spoke
about it in depth like this.
And part of the reason for that is, and
this is the correct forum and it makes
sense, but part of the reason for that
is
I can't think of anything worse than
being
uh what's the word? Um
when if when someone if someone like
this was talking to me about this and I
had not experienced that, I'd feel
really sorry for them naturally. I don't
like that. I don't like those feelings.
I don't like those ideas. appreciate
that it's it's weighty and people should
of course feel sorry, but I think the
reason that I'm always quite selective
of how when I talk about it is because I
cannot have that define me. I can't.
It's not fair to my family. It's not
fair to Felicity. It's not fair to my
mom. Like I can't. And you know the the
problem is
if we walked out of here and we just
happened to get paps right in the
article that the Daily Mail print every
single time they will write about this
stuff you know like like every single
time it could be me and you going to get
a coffee and then you know they do that
thing where it's like a 20% new article
and then they just fluff out the rest of
the 80% with basically the narrative
that that they want to push. But that's
that's something that I can't escape and
I that that that I find that really
frustrating because I'm not someone who
is a a glass half empty kind of guy. I
don't want those kind of feelings and
emotions. I empathize and understand
with the with anyone hearing these
stories. Of course, you're going to
maybe you would feel bad for me. But I
think my biggest worry in these kind of
things
is to not be defined by it. And an
example of that would be when I released
a song called Two of Us, which was a
song that was written essentially about
my mom's uh passing.
>> Yeah.
>> And
I didn't realize by releasing that song
how a it would open the floodgates to
have many people kind of, you know, put
a lot of their trauma on me as well,
which is okay, but also creating this
thing where anyone just feels like they
could ask anything then. So, I remember
going on to BBC breakfast news
and uh it's one of those things. It's
[__] early morning slot. Like, not
even the presenters want to be there.
Never mind me at that time. And I'm not
good with early mornings. Anyway, so I'm
going on to talk about two of us the
single. Now, we distinctly said, you
know what, it's like, you know, these
are these are the things that are okay
to mention and do not mention these
things.
Now, if I was going to go on and talk
about what the song was about, then fair
enough. you know, that's that's one
thing. But I actually had a journalist
at the time who asked me um directly
about those things and I'd known that
we' we' we'd said don't. Now, it's very
different to be like sometimes on that
list we might have don't speak about One
Direction like that. This is not what
I've got a problem with, but when
someone's had their their own grief and
you're still then going to ask those
kind of questions, I think
I found that really really troubling.
And I think what was interesting was I I
I left the interview and I used to be
good at this when I was a bit younger
and he took to Twitter was like never
[__] working with the BBC again blah
blah blah blah blah then he came back at
me this journalist he said well um if
you write a song about grief expect to
be asked about it and my instinctive
reaction was there's somebody who hasn't
experienced grief they couldn't possibly
have because if they had they wouldn't
make such a
horrible horrible comment that just
lacks all kind of empathy. So, I think
it's those kind of moments where I've
I've
quite guarded with this kind of
information just because I think as I
said, I think a lot of people if I never
spoke about it, I I don't carry myself
with someone that looks like they're
really hurting. At least I hope I don't.
I don't think I do.
>> Do you know what I had? This sounds like
a crazy thing for me to say,
>> but I I had no idea.
>> Okay. Right. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Yeah.
>> So, we met Soccer.
>> Okay. Right.
>> I had no idea.
>> I like that. Okay. That makes me feel
good, actually.
>> And, you know, it's it's just me being
honest. I had no idea. I'm not someone
that I don't read really read
newspapers. I don't stay close to um
tabloid stuff. Uh I had known Liam, but
Liam hadn't spoken to me about these
things. I'd met you. We hang out for a
couple of days at Soccerade. I had no
idea.
>> Yeah. Okay. And it was only in
researching your story and your
background and understanding where
you've come from and really what
inspires a lot of the music and and
different things like that that I
started to understand these things. So,
um you're certainly not someone that
carries yourself in any with any
particular identity really that's that
that one could could discern other than
just being a normal guy.
>> And the the other thing that that
connects us is it was Liam and I think
it would have been Liam's birthday a
couple of days ago. Yeah, his birthday
was 3 days off mine. So, his 29th of
August, I believe, and mine was mine's
the 26th. And we both um I knew him a
little bit. You knew him an awful lot.
And he he passed away
um while on holiday um in Argentina.
I mean, yeah. I just it just couldn't
believe it. And you to him cuz he had
told me he talked about you all the time
through the pandemic. I know you were
doing things together, doing sort of
these sort of live life live shows and
stuff. and he would talk about you as if
you were his best friend in the band all
the time. And I guess that's that's you
feel you reciprocate that feeling with
him, right? You were like the especially
thereafter the band, you know,
>> definitely thereafter. I I'd say um in
the first couple of years me and Liam
used to speak about this. We we kind of
but head heads a little bit like I said
before Liam had been you know he'd been
working really really hard since the age
of 14 to get to where he was in One
Direction. My journey wasn't like that.
So there was definitely,
you know, if I wanted to do something
and I might be going out late at night
and then Liam might say something on the
line along the lines of we've got a
photo shoot at 9:00 in the morning
tomorrow. We we never saw eye to eye on
those kind of things cuz I'm just like,
well, I've got this amazing opportunity,
so I'm still going to go out and, you
know, party or whatever. But I think
Liam he came from a very very sensible
um point of view but mostly because he
had uh he'd given so much more time and
energy to it by that point like like as
I said like when yes it was my third
audition but really they weren't too
taxing the moments of the rejection I I
just got on with it and got through it
and it was fine.
The only time X Factor was relevant to
me was the times when I was auditioning
those days. Whereas Liam, it became his
life from 14 right up until 16. Um, you
know, he he'd sang at like West Brom
Stadium before like any of us had done
anything. Um,
I when I put my post up about him and by
the way so utterly challenging that like
that there are just too many words and
too many memories. You could it could
just be infinite the the post you know
you got to you I really wanted
I really wanted him to be remembered the
way that he should be remembered but
this you know I could just go on and
talk all day about how amazing he was
but I think we all looked up to him if
we it if we were I don't think I would
have been brave enough to say at that
age when I was in the band I think I
would have had too much pride um but we
all looked up to him massively for like
the reasons that I just stated you know
he he was vastly experienced before any
of us had done anything. Um, he was also
like the safest pair of hands like in
every sense of the word. So like
vocally, interview, music video, you
know, like whatever it would be and he'd
be like working and doing it like he
would always be the safest pair of hands
where he maybe of me and saying in the
back like either smoking a joint or
doing something stupid. Liam would
always always have his eye on the ball,
which
ironically created more space for the,
you know, when you've got someone who's
willing to pick up the pieces and you've
got young lads,
young lads don't reflect and go, "Oh, I
can see who's picking up a lot of the
pieces. I'm going to do a bit more for
it." Well, no, you just see that. Like
my role in the band might have been to
be disruptive and have conversations
with record labels or or or management
or whoever and that was for me to be
disruptive and go against the grain.
Liam's role was the opposite but equally
if not more important to just keep
everything going, you know, and and be
that safe pair of hands of of uh keeping
everything in check. That's why from
like a very young age like he was he was
he was called like the sensible one in
the band which I also don't think would
have done him loads of favors mentally
either.
>> He was wildly misunderstood.
>> Big time. Big time man. Big time.
>> And often times people maliciously
misunderstood him which was hard. You
know it's hard. I don't know how I don't
know if I have the right words for this
but if you knew Liam Payne and then you
went on the internet and saw the way
that he was described when you know
certain moments in press and there was
that interview he did in LA
>> and things like that.
>> Yeah. you you if you you could only feel
awful that he was so poorly
misunderstood because he was often
painted as being arrogant or whatever,
but the reality of Liam is like the
opposite of whatever the word arrogant
is.
>> Pure is the word.
>> Really? Yeah. Really nice way of
describing him like that had and I don't
mean this in a in in a remotely um rude
way or derogatory derogatory way. He he
had a bit of puppy dog energy about him,
you know, like he's just like when you
say pure there, that's what it makes me
feel like. He's just the kind of guy
that you might, you know, you might get
a bit of banter wrong and it comes
across a bit cutting and you see him go,
"Oh," and you go, "Oh, I'm a [__]
asshole." He just just such a
>> just really wanted to be liked. And now
we all do obviously like that that I've
seen all of us. But I think for Liam it
was it was vitally important but also he
missed out on some of the social life
cuz from 14 to 16 he was actually
working at that point like he was still
at school and stuff but his brain and
and his dreams and probably every night
that he went to sleep he was thinking
about how is he going to achieve what it
is that he wants to achieve. So he he
definitely had a very different journey
to to all of us. Where were you when you
you found out?
>> In the car on in LA and I just dropped
I'm pretty sure again my memory isn't
good at these moments of time, but I
think I think I just dropped Freddy off
at school with my son and we were just
about to pull back up home.
Yeah. And yeah, I think that's how it
went down. It was actually It was
actually I found out through Nile.
He told me and then I yeah as soon I
think he said n say something like on
the lines of have you seen the news and
I knew as soon as he said that um kind
of knew what it might meant what what he
might have meant um
I had the feeling to that had a felicity
you know and I think anyone has this
when they're around someone who's
struggling um
my 150% wasn't nearly enough. And that's
where we, you know, it's my own
arrogance thinking that I could have
helped really cuz it was so much deeper
than than what I could have done for
him. He was definitely, you know, he was
definitely struggling at that time in
his life. And
a lot of people said this and I really
it really resonated with me. It just he
never
if he could
if he could just see just for 5 minutes
just live in your head or my head and
see how we perceive him. He would be so
shocked.
>> He would be like honestly but like even
the fact that you two were friends and I
didn't know about that until you
mentioned it so maybe he mentioned it
loosely. Um he would have loved that. He
would have loved that. He would have you
would have been someone definitely
definitely that he would have felt
really like proud to know, you know, and
like cuz cuz you come from also a very
credible space and that's something that
was always always really important to
Liam. Business very very important to
Liam.
>> Um so the fact that you saw him like
that would have meant the the world to
him definitely.
>> He just he just Yeah, he he very very
misunderstood.
But I think also the fact that he was
misunderstood
is because he was like I said to before
about our all of our solo endeavors.
When most bands or artists start out,
they do a development stage for 6
months, 12 months, 18 months, 2 years.
We had to do this development in the
public eye post being in One Direction.
Liam was still working so much out. So
the fact that he might have been a
misunderstood, you can't, you know,
there's some things that people
definitely can be judged for, but in
terms of him occasionally coming across
like that, you can't even judge people
on looking because they just see what
they see. But in reality, that's just
someone navigating almost in the way
that if you went down to university and
just people watched for two months, you
would see some stuff, you know, of
people that were struggling with some
things and whatever. Uh or, you know,
complete walking contradictions. You'd
see someone in the first year who says
that they swear by this brand and
they'll never wear this brand and then
next year they'll be wearing said brand.
We we when when we're at that age, we're
all still just working it out. there's
so much room to be misunderstood cuz you
you you
don't know yet, you know, and and I
think that was a tough thing for all of
us is working out who am I outside of
Liam in One Direction, Louis in One
Direction, who who who am I and what
does that look like? And that question's
intimidating. Really really
intimidating. you lose you lose a friend
there, but you also in some respects it
marks
it's grieving the band again, is it not?
Is it not? You know what I mean? It's
>> it definitely brought up feelings like
that. Um, look, there's there's there's
now only three other people on the
planet that can deeply understand my
professional journey.
Like you never say never, right? never
like I just can't I can't ever imagine
I'm not sure it would be right to him
like say say say say say say say say say
say say say say say say say say say say
say say say sake of argument 25 years
time it's like a [__] oasis thing
they offer us an arm and a leg and
they're like come back and do this many
shows
I don't know yeah I think it just it
just completely put a a pin in all that
and the irony is there was no one
campaigning for one direction to get
back back together more than Liam. And
like I would say I came in a close
second actually. Like definitely another
important thing to mention about Liam
which I thought was incredible.
There's a time where I felt like me and
Liam were professionally losing
together. We were struggling to to um be
solo artists and find true success and
we were kind of struggling together. And
then Liam had little moments where he
had like really successful singles and
they stream really well and he'd like
feel really good about that. But at that
time I nothing was really working for me
and and in my job. So, I was really
proud of him and I'd messaged him and
stuff, but and then not to the same
weight, but kind of role reversed a
little bit and Liam start was struggling
a little bit more professionally and I
just started just started to understand
the picture a little bit more, started
doing more touring and stuff like that.
And like for example, when my I made a
documentary in a film about like my life
after One Direction and Liam came to the
premiere. Now,
I'll just say this cuz I was going to
mince me words, but none of the other
boys would have done that fact. Boys out
the band, the the lads in One Direction.
Would I have even done that? I would
like to sit here now and say, "Yeah, I
think I would, but I I I don't know
truthfully." And the point being that le
me empathizing how I was a couple of
years prior to that Liam was sat in a
cinema watching a film about how I had
been successful in the last 12 months
when he was struggling with his own
things. And it's something that I'm not
sure I would have been brave enough to
do. I'm not sure the other boys would
have. And basically all that is to to
sum that up is just utterly putting
himself second. there's no way that that
wouldn't have had a certain kind of
weight on him because as you said, we're
all human and we naturally compare. So,
you know, there might be things that
were happening there that that he was he
was wanting for. And I think just the
fact that he turned up on that day and
was there for me and I just did the role
reverse in my head and imagined that I
just imagined how challenging that that
could be and it's just a real testament
to to Liam and he couldn't have been
more happy. And it's another great
example, right, of this of where the
[__] internet are just it's just
horrible place at times.
He put up and luckily I know someone
will have screenshotted it cuz he
deleted in the end. But he put up this
beautiful post after my premiere for
this documentary. Like an essay, a
[__] essay, like stuff that he's
never said to me before. It was like the
sweetest, nicest [__] [__] And then
about two days later, he deleted it
because the fans were just caning for
it. Just saying that he was like, you
know, bandwagon kind of like like you
know what what it's like. It's a very
small percentage of people, but they
make a lot of noise and sometimes it'll
push you to a point of like even
deleting a pose. But that being an
example of him just really putting
himself second and really trying to say
to the world how proud he was of me and
and the end goal was more ridicule
>> and save happened right when he was in
Argentina. He was there watching Nile.
>> Yeah. performing. There was lots of
similar narrative around his his
appearance there.
>> And and all I would say in any regard
like that, not just Liam, in any person
like that, after you judge, cuz
sometimes it's human nature to judge.
After you judge, just give those things
just a little bit more thought. So take
the tour thing for example, and he's at
the tour show and people were people
were making comments of how much he was
loving the attention.
On the surface level, that's someone who
wants attention. If you just look a
little bit deeper, that's someone who's
just been in the biggest band in the
world and wants those situations again,
who hasn't had those live situations
again and craves for them. The reason
also Liam could be misunderstood is
because he he didn't really operate with
a filter, you know. So, he would just
feel something, say it, and they go,
>> "Is there anything else that you you've
been meaning to say?"
It's a great provocative question that
is always right.
>> No, no, there is. There is. There is.
Um,
>> well, we should we should we should talk
we should talk about Freddy for a
second. My little boy.
>> Follow the head.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Which is again something that
happened to me. Um, I was young. I was
24 when I had Freddy. Now, what a lot of
people the emotions that a lot of people
go through when they've become a new
parent. Some of those will be different
for me because I've always been uber
excited about it. Even from like being a
young young lad, but also truthfully, I
felt utterly confident.
>> I just I just I felt I felt like I was
going to be a good dad. I really really
wanted to to to do that and to play that
role. Um and he's just honestly he is
just the sweetest kid, man. He's just so
kind. Like that's what honestly I could
well up thinking about it now. That's
what that's what makes me feel deeply
proud.
>> That I mean that's what I I did ask
Lotty and a few others about about him.
And the quote that I got back is Louis
is the most amazing dad. His little boy
is the nicest, sweetest, most polite boy
ever. And that's obviously because of
how Louis has brought him up. I tried to
take a lot of advice and be more like
him with my parenting. And that came
from Lotty. I know multiple accounts of
just how wonderful of a young young man
Freddy's growing up to be. So that's
>> he's great, man. I tell you what, I'm at
this age, 33, few gray hairs on me head,
starting to be a bit more aware of me
age, feeling a little bit older. There's
nothing that makes you feel better than
when I go pick him up from school. I am
a young dad. Like for that age group,
I'm still a young dad. So yeah, it's
good for my ego as well. The only things
that can sometimes be challenging like
that with with Freddy is um it took it
was like the elephant in the room for
ages, me talking about like my life and
specifically the fame like specifically
like those kind of things cuz I think to
a kid they just see it in the pure sense
of a singer, you know, there's someone
who sings and that's that. But the I
think where I where it became inevitable
that I'd have to have conversations with
him, it'd be like say we're out, you
know, uh at Target in America and
someone stops me for a photo. Now, I'd
like to say I'm pretty good with photos.
I'll do them eight times out of 10. Um
whenever I'm with Freddy, there is a
1,000%
no chance. Like that is just not
happening. I don't get enough time with
him as it is. I'm always always
balancing me time between tour and going
to see Freddy in the UK. So like it's
just a flat note every single time. And
after like the second or third time that
that had happened, I just played in my
mind. I put into bed that night and I I
was reliving it and I was thinking he's
going to think I'm a dick. And that why
was I was like cuz I you know it's
really important that you know I push
kindness on him and and and and respect
and seeing the good in people and all of
that. And all of a sudden I was doing
this thing that was really contrary to
what I was kind of trying to teach. So,
I did have to have a conversation with
him about it. But again, you're you're
trying to explain algebra. As I said
before, when I'm not at work, like I I
would be more than happy to like nobody
to ever recognize me when I'm not at
work. When I'm at work, I'll need it for
the promo. Give me a bit of that. But
when I'm not at work, like I'm I could
go out me way to just never have any of
that. Hood up. No one. Cool. So, when
I'm picking up Freddy from school, I am
certainly not some guy used to be in
this band and this singer. Like, not at
all. Well, I am there like everyone else
as a father or as a mother. It was last
day at term go to pick him up and go to
his class and I could just hear what
sounded like karaoke. And I'm thinking
of all [__] days of me going to pick
him up, they're doing karaoke today. And
she had absolutely no problem asking me
in front of everyone if I wanted to come
to the front and do one of the songs.
Now I'm there as a parent like you know
that that's that. And what's really
tough is in front of Freddy and all his
friends, I have to plightly decline.
Now, I don't really like how that's
going to make Freddy feel. You know,
those kind of situations are really,
really tough like that where now some
people may well have just grabbed the
mic and just took the stage, you know,
but um I I those there are moments like
that that I think I don't think he's
going to truly understand until he gets
a little bit older. He's been to a
couple of gigs and that definitely added
like some context to it all.
>> He came to you in California, didn't he?
>> Yeah. when you performed out.
>> Yeah, that was amazing, man. It was so
amazing.
>> I did something at 24 years old that has
had a profound impact on my life. I set
myself the challenge of posting every
single day on my social media channels
and at the time I was doing it to grow
my following. But it had this profound
impact on my life and two remarkable
things happened when I did that. I
managed to learn faster because every
single day I'm capturing what is
happening to me and trying to distill it
down into something that I can share
with the world. But more remarkably, it
led me to building a following of many
millions of people. And that's the basis
that I used to launch the Dire of SEO.
And that's why I want to tell you about
our sponsor today, Adobe Express. They
are the platform that I use to make all
the posts across my LinkedIn and across
my Instagram. It's a couple of clicks
and you don't need to be an expert. And
that is why I love using it because I'm
not an expert in graphic design. It's
accessible to use for all of us, even if
we don't have the technical prowess to
design great things. So, if you want to
start compounding both your reach and
your knowledge like I did at 24 years
old, then head to adobe./stephven
and get started with Adobe Express.
That's adobe.
Steven. I guess we should talk about the
music.
>> Yeah.
>> Which I'm very excited to talk about.
So, you've been working on this album.
And I think what's the important context
we've had is I'm curious to know how
much everything we've talked about today
and the season of life that you've
arrived at at 33, you're now in love as
well.
>> Your girlfriend is out there from all
the people I spoke to.
>> You're very smitten. I think your your
friend from back home described you as
being whipped.
>> Was that Miz? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sounds
like him. That's funny.
>> Um and you went Instagram official.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I saw that. New territory
for me all that. Yeah, I'm learning on
the job.
>> How does that all weave in to the music?
And how is the music different this time
around? Like what are you thinking going
into the studio?
>> You know, all of those all those things
are so relevant. They are like, you
know, personal life and and and how
happy you are and fulfilled and content.
All those things of course play into the
record definitely. I think because of
you know a lot of the conversation we've
just had, there's been a certain kind of
weight to the music before now. Like I
said, I wrote that song about my mom
called Two of Us. And there's just a
certain I could imagine, you know,
listening to my first record, like I'
i'd be pretty exhausted after listening
to it emotionally. It's like [__]
hell. Just put in a couple of nice,
happy, fun songs, you know? But I it
wasn't true to me at that time. So like
I think I think now
now I feel in a comfortable place to be
like positive and like happy and
confident. You know, that's one thing I
was thinking about with this record is
like my intention is just to maybe feel
good. I know that's a really cliche and
like obvious thing to say, but I'm not
sure some of my other music did that. It
made you feel it was honest. It was
painful at times, but it didn't feel
that good. So, I think now I've got this
almost like a new sense of life, a new
sense of happiness and purpose and
fulfillment, all of those things. But
also, it's something I've like the older
I get, the more hippie I can get on
these kind of ideas. And if I would use
like a an analogy,
on the last two records, I had a very
small palette of paint of the colors I
was choosing from. And a lot of them
were kind of darker colors. Whereas on
this record, it feels like the palette
is a lot deeper. There is a lot more to
say, but there's a lot more color on
there as well. That makes me feel really
good because that that I must feel good
to make that record. You can't fake [__]
like that or at least I can't anyway.
>> And how much does love come into all of
this?
>> As I said, I'm I'm like deeply deeply
romantic person. Um it also it's also
easy to be romantic when you're a
creative. You know, those two things are
just they're tied.
But I think for me,
I really struggle to write in a
fictional sense. I really really
struggle. So like for me I have to have
been living it. I have to it has to be
literal. It has to be real to me. So if
I wasn't feeling so good like right now
I wasn't feeling so in love. The record
probably would have a slightly different
feel to it. Just cuz it you know I
things like that are in everything that
I we do I would say.
>> And what is success for you this time
around? Like what is we talked about the
comparison and this and that and all
these other yard sticks we can use and
>> I'll tell you what success is. Success
for me
is actually successfully
computing what the new idea of success
is. So I know what my old idea is, but
true success for me, and I'm not there
yet, is getting to the point where I
don't just say this is my new version of
success. I mean it implicitly. And it's
really what's really difficult is
the music industry is an industry that
is a a numbers game and b competitive.
Now you can pretend to have this
different version of success and and and
and you can get there in the end, but
the point being that like there are a
million different tools in place to pull
you to the other side.
>> Yeah,
>> it genuinely shouldn't matter where my
album charts, let's just say like go to
the UK for example, where my album
charts in the UK. It shouldn't really
matter that much to me, but it does.
I've not quite got there yet. And I
think the irony is I just started to get
there on the last record. And the last
record obviously high class problem. I
get that. Went to number one. And then
all of a sudden I'm like obviously I
want it again now. So I I started to
have the answer for what the new thing
of success looks like until I succeeded.
I superseded my own idea of success. And
then I'm like, "Oh, well then the
barriers just changed." And then that
then then you're basically just playing
the same game you were before.
>> Where are you in your journey of
happiness? Like if you had to plot plot
your plot your life on a timeline of
like, you know.
>> Oh, I like that cuz I've never really
thought about that like thought about it
like this. It makes me feel good. It
feels like I'm on the home straight.
>> Okay. Nice. Beautiful. Like I feel like
truthfully, like obviously not what I
would have told like my sisters like
back in the day or my family or anything
like that, but like it was more of a
concept.
Um the idea of me getting over this and
being truly happy for a long time. It
was like a concept as opposed to any
kind of form of reality. It was like,
"Oh, well, I'm sure, you know, logically
that makes sense in my head, but will I
ever get that? I don't know."
Um,
I now feel
worthy for the success that I've earned.
And for a long time, I I just I didn't
know if I'd ever get there. And I would
say this record, this this album is the
album that I was always that I always
deserve to make. It's just I had to be
brave enough to say, "Yes, I'm an
artist. Yes, I'm a recording artist, and
I'm a touring artist, and I'm a
songwriter." And all these things that
sometimes just felt a little bit cringe
to say out loud, weirdly. And I think
part of the imposter syndrome maybe, but
the the picture that was forever quite
blurry looks a little bit more sharp
now.
>> And I mean, the fans are waiting.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, I saw the tweet you did the
other day where you you talked about the
music and how confident you are and how
you're feeling about it. Um, and the
response underneath that that post was
just insane.
>> Absolutely insane. the energy is is
there and um people are extremely
excited. You have an incredible fan
base.
>> Yeah, honestly, I I I could I can never
talk about this enough. Um and anyone
listening to this now that doesn't know
me or my fans would just think that this
is just another artist speaking another
cliche about his fans. I'm telling you,
this is what I call it is a
codependency. like I they do so much for
me and I do, you know, hopefully stuff
for them when I do the gigs and stuff,
but like when I feel the energy on
stage, this is not a let me show you all
what I can do. this is a look what we've
done together, you know, and I really
really feel that the the size of the
venues that that'll be playing on this
next tour. These are things I never
considered for myself and only made
possible from the fan base being like
really really loyal but also like real
patient real patient for me to just kind
of you know work all these things out on
the fly while they keep buying the
record. The other thing that really
surprised me that a lot of people didn't
know about is that you are also um a
pretty prolific entrepreneur in your own
right and you've you've founded a music
festival called the Away from Home
Festival which was which originally in
London but has expanded internationally
around Spain, Italy, Mexico. Um you got
your clothing brand as well, 28 I saw 28
tattooed on your arm there I believe
which is a streetear brand. Um and
that's done tremendously well. The the
brand has sold four soldout drops
worldwide and hosted some incredible
events. Well, I'm very excited. I'm very
very excited about your um your album.
Very very excited by it. I'm I'm I guess
um Do you have a name for your fan base
yet? Everyone seems to have a name for
the fan.
>> You know what? That's so funny cuz like
>> the Tom Lindon. I don't know. What's it?
>> There must be though. That Oh, I think
No, they call himself the Louis.
>> The Louis. So, I'm a Louis. So,
>> there we go. So, just rolls up the
tongue.
>> We We have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest leaves a
question for the next guest not knowing
who they're leaving it for. The question
left for you, it's a bit of a paragraph,
but I'm going to give it my best shot.
If you are truly prioritizing the most
important things in your life, brackets,
eg family, and we only have limited time
and effort to give. If you are a high
achiever and performer, have you
prioritized the most important thing?
>> No. No, I haven't. I haven't. But
I would I would I would that's really
tough one to answer. It requires some
true true honesty.
Those the things that really really
matter.
For a start, I spent a lot of my a lot
of my
later teen years and early adult life in
One Direction. So, I didn't
I didn't re I wasn't really in the head
space for the ball to have dropped for
how important certain things are. When
you're younger, it's super literal,
right? Like, if I drink this alcohol and
get really drunk and I feel good, then
that's good, right? Then you get a bit
older and you realize, oh, maybe it's
not so good. So, like any of those kind
of things. Um, I I I I suppose now I
understand how important,
you know, looking out for yourself is
and and and mental health, but also, you
know, I've always been a family guy, but
I mean, actually deeply
cherishing those moments as well. So, I
definitely could have done that more as
as a young lad, but I think that's
probably the case of a lot of young
people that they probably reflect and
think, well, I should have done that
more as a as a young person. But the
truth is, the ball hasn't really dropped
yet. you don't realize how important
those all those little intricacies
intricacies are cuz also when you're
young everything's so new so you just
like the allore is so much sexier on the
other side oh look there's a new thing
here new thing here new thing here
whereas I think it takes a bit of age
and experience to look at those things
to go oh actually maybe I haven't been
spending my time correctly
>> yeah I mean you perfect you said it
perfectly and it really held the mirror
up to me to be honest because I think
you know you said you you haven't
perfectly prioritize the most important
things, but you're certainly
prioritizing the most than more than
most people,
>> you know, cuz I hear about how much time
how much effort you put into making sure
you spend time with Freddy and your
sister described you as always being
family centric.
>> Um, and that's a really really beautiful
thing. Louis, thank you so much. So, I
can't be can't be more excited to listen
to the album with all the context that
we've described and also the
understanding of where you've arrived at
in your life now and how how your
perspective has has developed and um all
that lived experience has poured into a
beautifully uplifting wonderful sound.
Um so, thank you so much for the honor
and the privilege of being able to have
this conversation with you and just for
being a really on and off camera just a
really really sound guy.
>> Oh, nice one, man. I appreciate that.
No, I really enjoyed it, man. I really
It flew by though. We've been talking
for some time.
>> Yeah, it's good man. Thank you so much.
Make sure you keep what I'm about to say
to yourself. I'm inviting 10,000 of you
to come even deeper into the D of a CEO.
Welcome to my inner circle. This is a
brand new private community that I'm
launching to the world. We have so many
incredible things that happen that you
are never shown. We have the briefs that
are on my iPad when I'm recording the
conversation. We have clips we've never
released. We have behindthe-scenes
conversations with the guests and also
the episodes that we've never ever
released. and so much more. In the
circle, you'll have direct access to me.
You can tell us what you want this show
to be, who you want us to interview, and
the types of conversations you would
love us to have. But remember, for now,
we're only inviting the first 10,000
people that join before it closes. So,
if you want to join our private closed
community, head to the link in the
description below or go to
daccircle.com.
I will speak to you there.
This has always blown my mind a little
bit. 53% of you that listen to the show
regularly haven't yet subscribed to the
show. So, could I ask you for a favor
before we start? If you like the show
and you like what we do here and you
want to support us, the free simple way
that you can do just that is by hitting
the subscribe button. And my commitment
to you is if you do that, then I'll do
everything in my power, me and my team,
to make sure that this show is better
for you every single week. We'll listen
to your feedback. We'll find the guests
that you want me to speak to and we'll
continue to do what we do. Thank you so
much.
Heat. Heat. N.
[Music]
Heat. Heat.